>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY,
MARCH 1st, RUSSIA'S PARLIAMENT
DEFIES PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
AUTHORIZES SENDING TROOPS TO
UKRAINE.
UKRAINE MOBILIZES ITS TROOPS
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
NEARLY 70 YEARS AFTER THE END OF
WORLD WAR II GERMANY IS STIL
GOING AFTER FORMER NAZIS FOR
THEIR ROLE IN THE HOLOCAUST.
>> Translator: BECAUSE OF THEI
AGE, THESE MEN MAY NEVER REACH
TRIAL OR GO TO PRISON, BUT IT IS
JUST AND RIGHT THAT WE GO AFTE
THEM
>>> AND SOME OF AMERICA'
YOUNGEST URBAN FARMERS
THE SECRET OF THEIR SUCCESS.
NEXT ON PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH STUDIOS.
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THERE'S BEEN A DRAMATI
ESCALATION OF TENSIO
SURROUNDING THE SITUATION IN
UKRAINE.
UKRAINE TONIGHT PUT ITS MILITARY
FORCES ON FULL COMBAT ALERT AN
WARNED THAT RUSSIAN MILITARY
INTERVENTION IN UKRAINE WOULD BE
THE BEGINNING OF WAR
THIS HOURS AFTER THE RUSSIAN
PARLIAMENT VOTED UNANIMOUSLY T
AUTHORIZE THE DEPLOYMENT O
RUSSIAN TROOPS IN UKRAINE.
EARLIER TODAY RUSSIAN FORCES
EFFECTIVELY SEIZED CONTROL O
CRIMEA, AN AREA THAT HAS BEE
PART OF UKRAINE FOR THE PAST 6
YEARS, BUT IS HOME TO TH
RUSSIAN BLACK SEA FLEET AN
SKIRMISHES BETWEEN PRO-UKRAINIAN
AND PRO-RUSSIAN LOYALISTS HAVE
ALREADY BROKEN OUT IN UKRAINE.
THE VOTE TO AUTHORIZE RUSSIA
TROOPS TO UKRAINE CAME LESS THAN
24 HOURS AFTER PRESIDENT OBAMA
CALLED ON RUSSIA TO RESPEC
UKRAINE'S SOVEREIGNTY AND WARNED
OF COSTS TO RUSSIA IF IT DID
NOT.
A CONVOY OF MORE THAN 20 RUSSIAN
MILITARY VEHICLES, SOME CARRYING
TROOPS, WAS OBSERVES TRAVELING
TO CRIMEA, AND UKRAINE ACCUSED
RUSSIA FROM SENDING TROOPS INT
THE REGION
RUSSIA KWA SAYS THE TROOPS HAD
ALREADY BEEN DEPLOYED TO GUARD
IMPORTANT SITES, INCLUDING
RUSSIAN FACILITY
FOR MORE ABOUT YOU WILL OF THI
WE'RE JOINED BY CHARLES KUTCHIN,
WITH THE COUNCIL ON FOREIG
RELATIONS.
WHAT DOES THIS VOTE IN THE
RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT MEAN TODAY?
>> IT AUTHORIZES RUSSIA TO USE
FORCE IN UKRAINE
IT APPEARS IT HAPPENED AFTER THE
FACT IN THE SENSE THAT OVER TH
LAST 24 HOURS WE HAVE REPORTS OF
TROOP MOVEMENT, OF RUSSIAN
MOVEMENT FROM RUSSIA PROPER INTO
CRIMEA
THE RUSSIANS ARE SAYING THAT
THAT'S OCCURRING UNDER THE
PRETEXT OF THE TROOPS THAT ARE
ALREADY THERE, AND SO THAT'S A
LARGE CONTINGENT, SOME 15,000,
BUT IT LOOKED PRETTY CLEAR THA
THEY'RE DOING MORE THAN JUST
ROTATING TROOPS.
THOSE TROOPS HAVE BEEN OUT I
THE FIELD, AND THE RUSSIAN
PARLIAMENT HAS ALSO CALLED FOR
MORE OF THE WITHDRAWAL OF TH
AMBASSADOR IN THE UNITED STATE
IN RESPONSE TO THE SPEECH THAT
OBAMA GAVE YESTERDAY
SO CLEARLY THE TEMPERATURE I
RAPIDLY RISING, AND RUSSIA SEEMS
TO WANT TO ESCALATE TH
SITUATION, NOT TO BACK DOWN.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE POSSIBLE E.U
RESPONSE
THEY'RE SCHEDULED TO HAVE MORE
CRISIS TALKS A SECOND TIME IN
COUPLE OF WEEKS.
WHAT CAN THEY DO
>> WELL, THEY'RE REALLY MOVING
I THINK, ON TWO FRONTS
ONE IS TO MOVE AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE ON PUTTING TOGETHER
SOME KIND OF ECONOMIC PACKAG
BECAUSE UKRAINE IS TEETERING O
THE EDGE OF DEFAULT, AND THE
UNITED STATES, THE E.U., AND THE
IMF ARE WORKING TOGETHER TO COME
UP WITH A PACKAGE, MAYBE AS HIGH
AS $15 BILLION
THAT'S WHAT THE RUSSIANS
INITIALLY OFFERED TO PRESIDENT
JANKOVICH.
THAT'S WHAT THE PROTESTS BEGAN
AND TOPPLED HIM.
THE SECOND CONVERSATION, WHICH
I'M GUESSING IS TAKING PLACE A
WE SPEAK, IS ONE ABOUT A
RESPONSE TO WHAT HAS OCCURRED.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID YESTERDAY
THERE WILL BE COSTS, AND I
LOOKED LIKE RUSSIA IS THROWING
DOWN THE GAUNTLET, IS USIN
MILITARY FORCE, WANTS TO TRY T
SEPARATE CRIMEA TO STIR UP
TROUBLE, AND SO THE U.S. AND THE
E.U. WILL BE TALKING ABOUT WHA
CAN WE DO TO SAY TO RUSSIA THA
THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE
>> WHAT ARE THE U.S. OPTIONS
WHAT DOES PRESIDENT OBAMA HAVE
>> WELL, I WOULD SAY THERE ARE
THREE ARROWS IN THE QUIVER
THE FIRST KIND OF RESPONSE WOULD
BE DIPLOMATIC, AND THAT WOULD BE
TO SAY WE'RE GOING TO PERHAP
WITHDRAW AMBASSADORS FROM EUROPE
AND THE UNITED STATES, THOSE
THAT ARE IN MOSCOW
IT COULD INVOLVE A CANCELLATIO
OF THE G-8 SUMMIT, WHICH I
SCHEDULED IN SOCHI IN ABOUT TW
MONTHS
IT COULD ALSO INVOLVE
SUSPENSION OF RUSSIA MEMBERSHI
IN THE G-8
MOVING UP THE LADDER WOULD B
SANCTIONS OF ONE SORT.
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS, FREEZING
ASSETS, DENYING VISAS TO RUSSIAN
INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE DEEMED TO
BE INVOLVED IN THE TROUBLE I
UKRAINE, AND, FINALLY, I'M
GUESSING THAT THERE IS ALSO
CONVERSATION ABOUT SOME KIND O
MILITARY RESPONSE.
CERTAINLY IT WILL NOT FOCUS ON A
MILITARY RESPONSE IN UKRAINE
BUT IT'S CONCEIVABLE THAT IF
THIS SITUATION CONTINUES T
ESCALATE THAT WE COULD SEE NAT
DEPLOY TROOPS IN POLAND, IN TH
BALTICS.
THAT IS TO SAY THEY FORTIFY TH
EASTERN FRONTIER
>> WILL ANY OF THESE POSSIBL
ACTIONS THAT YOU OUTLINE BE
DETERRENT ON PUTIN
>> I DON'T THINK THAT THEY WIL
BE MOVING IN THE SENSE THAT WE
ARE MOVING RAPIDLY FORWARD
RUSSIA SEEMS TO BE DOING
WHATEVER IT CAN TO STIR UP
TROUBLE.
ONE HUGE QUESTION THAT LOOMS O
THE HORIZON IS RUSSIA GOING TO
INTERFERE NOT JUST IN CRIMEA
BUT IN THE EASTERN O BLOC, THE
EASTERN STATES OF UKRAINE WHER
YOU HAVE ABOUT 40% OF TH
POPULATION BEING ETHNIC RUSSIAN.
WERE THAT TO HAPPEN, IT'
CONCEIVABLE THAT WE COULD SE
THIS WIDEN INTO A CIVIL WA
BETWEEN A EUROPE-ORIENTE
WESTERN UKRAINE AND
RUSSIA-ORIENTED EASTERN UKRAINE.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE
>>> IN BEIJING, CHINA, TODAY NEW
REGULATIONS WENT INTO EFFECT
DESIGNED TO LIMIT AIR POLLUTIO
CAUSED BY COAL BURNING FACTORIES
AND PLANTS
FIRST TIME VIOLATORS WOULD FAC
FINES OF 100,000, OR
APPROXIMATELY $16,000.
FINES WOULD DOUBLE FOR EAC
SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE
BEIJING SUFFERS FROM SEVERE AI
POLLUTION.
IN SOUTHWESTERN CHINA AT LEAST
27 PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND MORE
THAN 100 WOUNDED IN A KNIF
ATTACK AT A TRAIN STATION.
AUTHORITIES SAY UNIFORM ME
BRANDISHING KNIVES ATTACKE
PASSENGERS BEFORE SEVERAL WERE
SHOT BY POLICE
STATE TELEVISION CALLED IT A
TERROR ATTACK.
>>> BACK IN THE U.S., A MAJO
RAINSTORM CONTINUED TO POUND
MUCH OF CALIFORNIA WHICH HAS
BEEN SUFFERING THROUGH ITS WORST
DROUGHT IN MORE THAN A CENTURY
MORE THAN 1,200 HOMES WERE
EVACUATED YESTERDAY FOLLOWIN
HEAVY RAIN
RAINFALL OF THREE INCHES OR MORE
IS EXPECTED THROUGHOUT THE
WEEKEND.
MOSTLY IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
THE SAME STORM PRODUCING ALL
THAT RAIN IN CALIFORNIA IS
EXPECTED TO MOVE ACROSS TH
UNITED STATES DURING THE NEXT 48
HOURS, DROPPING A WINTRY MIX O
PORTIONS OF THE UNITED STATE
AND HEAVY SNOWFALL IN OTHE
AREAS.
>>> THE RELEASE OF ONC
CONFIDENTIAL CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION DOCUMENTS FRO
THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES OFFERS
INSIGHT INTO HILLARY CLINTON'S
THINKING WHEN SHE TRIE
UNSUCCESSFULLY TO OVERHAUL THE
NATION'S HEALTH CARE SYSTEM IN
THE DOCUMENTS REVEAL THAT TH
FIRST LADY EXPRESSED DOUBT THA
ANY PROPOSAL THAT INCLUDED A
MANDATE REQUIRING THE PURCHASE
OF INSURANCE COULD BE APPROVED
BY CONGRESS.
MRS. CLINTON IS QUOTED AS SAYING
IT WILL BE A MUCH HARDER SEL
AND WARNING THAT IT COULD SEND
WHAT SHE CALLED SHOCK WAVE
THROUGH THE CURRENTLY INSURE
POPULATION
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT ENACTE
IN 2010 INCLUDES JUST SUCH A
MANDATE, IF ENACTMENT AND --
ARE -- AND THE NATIONA
BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION SAYS IT
WILL DONATE PROCEEDS FROM TH
SALE OF JASON COLLINS' NUMBER 98
JERSEY TO TWO ORGANIZATION THA
IS SUPPORT GAY RIGHTS.
THE LEAGUE SAYS THE DONATION
WILL TOTAL MORE THAN $100,000.
♪♪
>>> NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT REPORTED FROM GERMANY.
NEARLY 70 YEARS AFTER THE END OF
WORLD WAR II THE GOVERNMEN
THERE IS INTENSIFYING IT
EFFORTS TO EDUCATE YOUNG GERMANS
ABOUT NAZI WAR CRIMES AND IS
STILL PURSUING THOSE WHO
COMMITTED THEM
JUST LAST WEEK GERMAN POLICE
RAIDED THE HOMES OF NINE MEN
SUSPECTED OF SERVING AS S.S.
GUARDS AT THE AUSCHWITZ DEAT
CAMP
THREE OF THOSE MEN, AGE 88 TO 94
YEARS OLD WERE ARRESTED.
LAST FALL NEWS HOU
CORRESPONDENT WILLIAM BRANGA
REPORTED THE STORY THAT FIRS
AIRED IN EARLY JANUARY
>> FROM THE OUTSIDE IT LOOKS
LIKE A BEAUTIFUL OLD ESTATE.
THIS IS NO PRIVATE RESIDENCE
INSIDE INVESTIGATORS FOR THE
GERMAN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AR
POURING THROUGH DECADES OL
RECORDS SEARCHING FOR THE LAST
REMAINING NAZI WAR CRIMINALS WHO
MIGHT HAVE ESCAPED JUSTICE
THIS IS PART OF A MUCH BROADER
NATIONAL EFFORT UNDERWAY I
GERMANY TO WRESTLE WITH TH
LEGACY OF THE HOLOCAUST.
IT INCLUDES THE CONSTRUCTION O
MEMORIALS AND MUSEUMS AT A
RECORD PACE.
THE REVAMPING OF THE NATION'
CURRICULUM SO THAT ALL GERMA
SCHOOL KIDS GET A FULLER
UNDERSTANDING OF THE NAZI ERA.
PERHAPS FEW ARE AS CRUCIAL T
THIS EFFORT AS THIS MAN.
HIS NAME IS KIRK SHRIMP, AND H
RUNS THE CENTRAL OFFICE IN
GERMANY AND IS STILL TRYING TO
BRING FORMER NAZIS TO JUSTICE.
>> RIGHT NOW ONLY MURDER I
PERSONABLE
ALL OTHER CRIMES HAVE PASSED THE
STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS AND CAN
NO LONGER BE PUNISHED.
>> 31 YEARS AGO SHRIM WAS
LOCAL PUBLIC PROSECUTO
INVESTIGATING ROBBERIES AN
MURDERS AND GUN CRIME.
WHEN THIS HISTORY BUFF HEARD O
AN OPENING IN A REGIONAL OFFIC
INVESTIGATING WAR CRIMINALS, H
JUMPED AT THE CHANCE
SOON AFTER A CONVERSATION WITH
ONE HOLOCAUST SURVIVOR DROVE
HOME THE IMPORTANCE OF THI
WORK
>> Translator: I MET AN ELDERL
JEWISH LADY IN NEW YORK AT THE
END OF THE 1980s WHO HAD
SURVIVED WAR
SHE SAID I HAVE BEEN WAITING
MORE THAN 40 YEARS FOR A GERMA
OFFICIAL TO BE INTERESTED IN M
CASE
SHE TOLD ME IT DOESN'T MATTE
WHETHER THIS PERSON IS PUT O
TRIAL OR GOES TO PRISON.
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING IS THAT
YOU LISTEN TO MY STORY
>> SHRIMM WOULD LIKE TO SEE TH
MAN HE IS INVESTIGATIN
PROSECUTED, BUT ESTABLISHING
THEIR GUILT IN COURT HAS BEE
COMPLICATED.
FOLLOWING WORLD WAR II T
CONVICT A GERMAN SOLDIER O
MURDER PROSECUTORS HAD TO PROV
A DIRECT PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THE KILLING OF AN INNOCENT
PERSON, BUT SEVERAL YEARS AG
GERMANY SUCCESSFULLY PROSECUTE
91-YEAR-OLD RETIRED OHIO
AUTOWORKER JOHN DEMANYUK WHILE
HE WAS AT THE DEATH CAMP
NOW SHRIMM IS HOPING TO USE THAT
LEGAL PRESS DEBT TO PROSECUT
DOZENS OF OTHERS, INCLUDIN
GUARDS WHO WORK AT THE AUSCHWITZ
CANAL CAMP
TO BUILD THEIR CASES THEY HAVE
NOT ONLY TALKED TO SURVIVORS
BUT DRAWING ON THE NAZI'S OW
MET HUSBAND RECORDS AND MAPS O
THE CAMP, INVESTIGATORS TRY TO
DETERMINE IF GUARDS OR EVEN LO
LEVEL WORKERS LIKE COOKS KNE
ABOUT OR WITNESSED THE GENOCIDE.
>> Translator: FOR THESE CASES
WE WENT TO AUSCHWITZ PERSONALL
AND LOOKED AT THE WHOLE CAMP AND
CHECKED WHETHER IT WAS POSSIBL
TO SEE FROM THE KITCHEN WHETHE
A NEW TRAIN OF PRISONERS WAS
ARRIVING OR WHETHER YOU COUL
SEE THE GAS CHAMBER.
>> AFTER COMPLETING THEI
INVESTIGATION, SHRIMM'S OFFICE
HAS RECOMMENDED THAT 30 FORMER
AUSCHWITZ GUARDS, MEN NOW IN
THEIR LATE 80s AND 90s, BE
PROSECUTED AS ACCESSORIES TO
MURDER
>> Translator: I THINK ON ON
HAND IT'S IMPORTANT FOR TH
SURVIVORS, THE VICTIMS THA
THESE CASES ARE INVESTED
ON THE OTHER HAND, IT'S ALSO
IMPORTANT FOR GERMANY.
DURING THE WAR GERMANY COMMITTED
SUCH TERRIBLE CRIMES THAT AFTE
THE WAR GERMANY HAD A TERRIBLE
REPUTATION
SO WE TRY TO IMPROVE THA
REPUTATION BY PROSECUTING THES
CASES.
>> THE CURRENT GENERATION NO
LONGER HAS TO DIRECTLY CONFRON
WHAT HAPPENED, SO IN MY OPINIO
THE DEMANYUK TRIAL, THEY HAVE
FUNCTION TO EXPLAIN AGAIN TO
PEOPLE WHAT HAPPENED, THE CRIMES
IN THAT PERIOD
>> THIS IS AN 81-YEAR-OL
HOLOCAUST SURVIVOR
AS A CHILD GROWING UP IN MUNICH,
AND HE HIS FAMILY LIVED NEXT T
THE OLD JEWISH SYNAGOGUE WHICH
THE NAZIS DESTROYED.
HE AND HIS FAMILY WERE
EVENTUALLY SENT TO A
CONCENTRATION CAMP
WE SAT DOWN IN MUNICH'S JEWISH
MUSEUM DIRECTLY ACROSS FROM TH
NEWLY BUILT SYNAGOGUE.
HE SAYS THE PRIORITY TODAY MUS
BE TO UNDERSTAND THE ROOT OF
THOSE CRIMES, NOT JUST
PROSECUTING THE PERPETRATORS O
THEM
>> WE WANT THE WORDS TO BE SAI
TO MAKE SURE THESE CRIMES DON'
HAPPEN AGAIN
THE EMPHASIS SHOULD BE ON TH
TIME RUNNING UP TO THE WAR AND
OF COURSE, WHAT'S HAPPENIN
TODAY.
>> WHAT'S HAPPENING TODAY IS THE
RISE OF WHAT HE BELIEVES ARE
FRIGHTENINGLY SIMILAR PREJUDICES
IN GERMAN SOCIETY, SIMILAR T
WHAT HE EXPERIENCED AS A JEWIS
CHILD 70 YEARS AGO
ACCORDING TO THE GERMA
GOVERNMENT THERE'S BEEN A SHAR
RISE IN NEO-NAZI CRIMES IN
GERMANY IN RECENT YEARS.
MOST OF THEM TARGETED AT
GERMANY'S GROWING IMMIGRAN
POPULATION, INCLUDING TURKS AN
IMMIGRANTS WHO ARE CALLE
GYPSIES.
FOR HIS PART HE COUNTERS THA
EXTREMISM BY VISITIN
CLASSROOMS, TELLING HIS STORY,
AND REMINDING STUDENTS THA
THERE ARE ECHOS OF THE PAST AL
AROUND
>> Translator: WHAT SHAPES M
LIFE TODAY ARE MY CHILDHOO
EXPERIENCES OF BEING MOCKED FO
BEING A JEW, BEING ISOLATED FO
BEING A JEW, BEING ATTACKED FO
BEING A GYPSY, AS PEOPLE SAID AT
THE TIME
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT MUST AN
I BELIEVE CAN BE CONVEYED TO
YOUNG PEOPLE
THAT'S WHAT DRIVES ME TO BE SO
ACTIVE TODAY
>>> THIS ONGOING REMEMBRANCE O
THE HOLOCAUST IS HARDLY LIMITE
TO THE FEW REMAINING SURVIVORS
OF THE WAR
GERMANY HAS BEEN PUTTING IT IN
ALL ITS MAJOR CITIES AND THE
COMMEMORATION ALSO COMES IN MORE
PERSONAL WAYS.
>> I HOPE THAT IT WILL NEVER
HAPPEN AGAIN, BUT IF IT WOUL
START AGAIN, IT WOULD START NO
ANYWHERE, BUT HERE
IN OUR MINDS
WOLFRIN IS AN ARTIST IN MUNICH
THE CITY IN WHICH ADOLPH HITLE
CALLED THE CAPITAL OF THE NAZI
MOVEMENT, IN ONE CITY THAT HAS
OFTEN BEEN CRITICIZED FO
DOWNPLAYING ITS ROLE IN THE RISE
OF THE THIRD REICHT.
>> THEY WANT THE CITY VERY GREEN
FOR TOURISM, TO INVITE ALL
PEOPLE FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD
TO COME TO MUNICH, AND IT'S AL
NICE AND WONDERFUL AND PRETT
AND IT'S SO MARVELOUS.
THE BLACK MARK, THE DARK -
>> THE CURRENT PROJECT HAS BEE
TO TELL THE STORIES OF
PARTICULAR JEWISH FAMILIES
TO DO SO HE PAINTS THESE
SUITCASES, SIMILAR TO THE ONES
>> LIVING HERE IN THE SECOND
FLOOR.
THERE LIVES A FAMILY, AND THEY
WERE KILLED.
>> WHY
>> IF YOU SEE A GIRL, A FACE,
STORY, THE HISTORY OF HER.
SIMPLY WHEN YOU ARE PLACED
BEFORE, IT'S ANOTHER FEELING
HISTORY COMES HERE
>> IN THE END GERMANY IS DOING
WHAT FEW NATIONS HAVE DONE
BEFORE
NOT CELEBRATING ITS GREATEST
ACCOMPLISHMENTS, BUT BUILDIN
MONUMENTS TO ITS DARKEST TIMES
DETERMINED TO KEEP HISTORY
CLEARLY IN SIGHT
>> LEARN ABOUT A NEW MUSIC APP
THAT GERMAN POLICE ARE USING T
TRACK NEO-NAZIS.
IT'S IT'S THE NEWS HOUR AT
PBS.ORG.
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT A STOR
ABOUT SOME OF AMERICA'S YOUNGEST
URBAN FARMERS.
SCHOOLCHILDREN LEARNING SCIENC
WHILE HELPING THOSE IN NEED.
NEWS HOUR'S TRACY WOLF REPORTS
>> THIS MAY LOOK LIKE ANOTHE
COMMERCIAL GREENHOUSE, BUT IT'
ACTUALLY A WORKING SCIENCE LAB
FOR STUDENTS IN KINDERGARTEN U
THROUGH THE EIGHTH GRADE
IT'S ONE OF 12 THAT'S BEEN BUILT
AS PART OF AN INITIATIVE TO PU
100 GREENHOUSE LABS IN NEW YOR
CITY SCHOOLS BY 2020
GREENHOUSES IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS
ISN'T NEW.
USING HYDROPONIC GROWING SYSTEMS
IS
A METHOD OF FARMING USING WATE
AND NUTRIENTS INSTEAD OF SOI
HYDROPONIC FARMING ALLOW
STUDENTS TO LEARN URBA
SUSTAINABILITY
>> ONE OF OUR PROGRAMS STRESSE
IS THE SCIENCE EDUCATION AND THE
SCIENCE BEHIND THE GROWING
>> CECIL IS THE DIRECTOR O
DEVELOPMENT FOR NEW YORK
SUNWORKS, A NONPROFIT THAT I
DEDICATED TO BUILDING SCIENC
LABS IN URBAN SCHOOLS.
>> IT'S REALLY NOT ABOUT URBAN
FARMING FOR US
IT'S ABOUT TALKING ABOUT
SCIENCE.
THAT'S BECAUSE MOST PEOPLE CAR
ABOUT FOOD
URBAN FARMING IS A GREAT WAY T
DO IT.
>> NEW YORK SUNWORKS OPENED THIS
1,400 SQUARE FOOT GREENHOUSE LAB
ON THE ROOF OF THE SCHOO
GYMNASIUM IN 2010.
BECAUSE HYDROPONIC GROWING
SYSTEMS ARE WATER-BASED, THE
ARE MUCH LIGHTER THAN THEIR SOIL
COUNTERPARTS AND EASIER TO
INSTALL ON A ROOF.
THERE ARE ALSO SEVERAL OTHER
BENEFITS TO HYDROPONIC GROWING
OVER TRADITIONAL SOIL FARMS.
IT -- NUTRIENT LEVELS IN WATER
CAN BE MORE EASILY CONTROLLED IN
SOIL, BUT WATER IS CONSTANTL
RECIRCULATED
>> HOW MUCH DOES A GREENHOUS
LIKE THIS ONE COST
>> THIS ONE COSTS $850,000
YEAH
SO THAT SOUNDS LIKE A LOT, BUT
IF YOU COMPARE IT TO WHAT
SCIENCE LAB COSTS, IT'S PROBABLY
ABOUT THE SAME
>> USE AING COMBINATION OF
PUBLIC MONEY, GRANTS, AN
PRIVATE DONATIONS, NEW YOR
SUNWORKS HELPS DESIGN AND BUIL
GREENHOUSE LABS THAT WILL SUIT
EACH SCHOOL'S NEEDS.
THE PROGRAM'S CURRICULUM WAS
DESIGNED TO FULFILL REQUIREMENTS
MANDATED BY THE NEW YORK STATE
SCIENCE STANDARDS.
BY USING HYDROPONICS AS A TOOL
NOT ONLY CAN TEACHERS COVE
GENERAL SCIENCE TOPICS, IT ALS
ENCOURAGES DISCUSSIONS ABOUT
DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE SYSTEMS
TO HELP ALLEVIATE PROBLEMS BASED
IN URBAN ENVIRONMENTS.
>> TELL ME WHAT HAVE YOU GUY
BUILT?
WHAT IS IT
>> IT'S A BIG -- IT'S AN
INTEGRATED LAWN.
>> WHAT KINDS OF PLANTS DID YO
PLANT IN YOURS
>> LETTUCE, BASIL, AND CARROTS
>> THIS IS SOMETHING I COULD
GROW ON MY ROOF?
>> YEAH.
>> IF YOU WANT -- IF YOU WENT TO
YOUR LANDLORD AND ASKED HIM, CAN
I GROW SOME PLANTS ON THE ROOF
AND HE SAID SURE, IT'S EASIER TO
GET YOUR FOOD FROM A LOCAL
PLACE, AND IT'S HEALTHIER AND --
>> YOU'RE HARVESTING, DO YOU
SELECT A LARGE PLANT
>> WITH THE HELP OF TH
STUDENTS, THIS PARTICULA
GREENHOUSE CAN PRODUCE UP TO
9,000 POUNDS OF PRODUCE A YEAR
MORE THAN THE KIDS COULD EVE
EAT, SO THIS CLASS OF SECOND
GRADERS VOTED TO DONATE THEI
GREENS TO MEALS ON WHEELS.
>> WE APPRECIATE IT.
>> WHICH DELIVERED THE PRODUCE
TO A SENIOR CITIZENS SENIOR IN
MIDTOWN MANHATTAN.
>> SO ONE OF THE GREAT THING
ABOUT ALL THE PRODUCE THAT THE
PRODUCE HERE IS THAT IT'S
GREAT WAY TO CONNECT TO TH
COMMUNITY.
>> JUST LIKE THE STUDENTS, MAN
BUSINESSES ARE ALS
EXPERIMENTING WITH HYDROPONI
GREENHOUSES, A POINT NOT LOST ON
THE KIDS
>> THE KIDS ARE LIKE WHO ELS
HAS A GREENHOUSE
THEY'RE STARTING TO GET REALLY
INTO IT.
WE HEARD THIS HIGH SCHOOL HA
ONE.
WE KNOW THAT THEY HAVE A
GREENHOUSE OVER THERE, AND WHA
ELSE CAN WE DO
>> WITH 20 MORE GREENHOUSE LAB
IN DEVELOPMENT, NEW YORK
SUNWORKS IS WELL ON ITS WAY TO
REACHING ITS GOAL OF 100 LABS BY
2020, AND THE TREND IS CATCHIN
ON IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY.
NEW YORK SUNWORKS HAS BEEN
CONTACTED BY SCHOOL DISTRICTS IN
COLORADO AND OREGON TO BRING THE
PROGRAM TO THEIR STATE
WITH MORE COMMERCIAL HYDROPONI
FARMS OPENING UP IN OKLAHOMA
CITY, ST. LOUIS, AND WASHINGTO
D.C., URBAN FARMING CONTINUES TO
GROW
>> THERE'S ALSO A LOT OF SCIENCE
CONCEPTS IN THE FARMING SYSTEMS.
I THINK IT'S A GREAT WAY TO SHOW
KIDS THAT SCIENCE IS NOT JUS
GUYS IN WHITE LAB COATS.
IT'S ACTUALLY EVERYTHING THAT'
AROUND US.
IT'S SCIENCE FOR EVERYON
BECAUSE EVERYONE NEEDS A GOO
SCIENCE EDUCATION.
♪♪
>>> RETURNING NOW TO OUR TOP
STORY.
THERE'S LATE WORD TONIGHT THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND RUSSIA
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN SPOKE
BY TELEPHONE FOR 90 MINUTES THIS
AFTERNOON ABOUT THE CRISIS I
UKRAINE.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAID THE
PRESIDENT CONDEMNED RUSSIA'S
MILITARY INTERVENTION THIS
UKRAINE, A STATEMENT ISSUED BY
THE KREMLIN AFTERWARDS QUOTE
PUTIN AS SAYING RUSSIA
RESEARCHES THE RIGHT TO PROTEC
ITS INTERESTS AND THOSE OF
RUSSIAN SPEAKERS IN UKRAINE.
EARLIER TODAY UKRAINE MOBILIZE
ITS FORCES AFTER THE RUSSIAN
PARLIAMENT AUTHORIZED SENDIN
RUSSIAN TROOPS THERE
RUSSIAN TROOPS HAVE ALREAD
SEIZED CONTROL OF CRIMEA
THANKS FOR WATCHING.